I am Colleen Atwood and this is my life
in looks.
[Music]
Whoa. Edward Scissor Hands. The process
of making Edward Scissorhand come to
life was really like a visceral process.
He was born from Orchard Street, Canal
Street back in the day in the 80s when
there was all these boxes of leather and
findings and all these stuff that these
guys sold. His leather suit was mainly
from Jobers on Orchard Street where I
just go get, you know, a cool piece of
leather with a texture and put the
puzzle together gradually combined with
some stretch materials. Those days we
didn't make a lot of multiples. So there
are really only two authentic OG Edward
Scissor Hand costumes around. And the
real part of the costume that I think
for all of us, me, Johnny, and Tim were
in a room at Stan Winston's who made the
hands. We were there coordinating the
hands and the costumes, but the minute
he put these hands on that are like
gloves was one of those moments in your
life that's like magical. With costumes
like this, it's often, you know, the
fear of people, oh, it's going to take
forever to get in and out of. And it
really is like putting on pants and a
shirt and wrapping it around and
buckling it. Poor Johnny wearing it in
Florida in 90° weather the whole time
was the hardest part. Like just drying
it out in between cuz it was really
really hot there. I was influenced in
that period by early Goautier who had
been using stretch with with nonstretch
fabrics to make it fit tightly but still
move. And it was really important to me
that this costume was able to move and
not just bag out like leather does if
you don't have anything behind it. Back
then there wasn't stretch leather like
there is today.
Oh my god, Handmmaid's Tail. I forgot
about that one. The color coding it was
very very strongly supported by the
director who really wanted the colors
symbolizing the order of the people in
the story. There was a designer I think
named Zoran in New York at the time
period who was very influential on how
the director wanted the clothes to look.
That kind of Soho kind of vibe, it
really influenced those costumes in that
period in the 80s. What I remember the
most about it is myself and the head of
the hair department did everybody's
ponytails every day because we were
obsessed with them being a certain way
and then putting on the scarves.
Silence of the Lambs. The way it was
written and the way it was envisioned by
Ted Thally I think and Jonathan was so
terrifying that you're kind of in the
middle of the night waking up and
checking your doors. Often times in
costumeuming there you're making things.
You want to have a feeling of them being
manufactured, not being something that's
so craft oriented. And in this case,
Jonathan had a lot of thoughts about
what this mask could be. Should it be
leather? Should it be just rope and like
kind of more basic and old-fashioned?
But I really felt it should be a version
of what's happening today. And I was
looking at all these hockey masks and I
was like, you know, that's really the
best tech that's out there today. And I
found this uh guy, I believe he was in
New Jersey, who made these masks. The
great story about this mask is
originally we were going to paint it,
but the first proto came in, it looked
like dead skin, and we're like, "Oh my
god, this is so much better than
painting it." But we didn't even think
about it. It is actually fiberglass,
which probably shouldn't be on anyone's
face in that state, but we didn't know
better then.
Little Women, a wonderful job. It was my
first period film and I was able to find
a lot of authentic fabrics. I bought a
lot of dresses from the period that were
half rotten and things were, you know,
not good about them, but I took them
apart and repurposed the material and I
felt like it really was art imitating
life because really in that period
people did that with their clothes. We
even had one dress which was, you know,
everyone was terrified about. But I
really wanted Blair Danes to wear one of
Winona's dresses because people had
handme-downs and they everyone was
freaking out cuz like what if we have to
have continuity and d I was like who
cares? Like we can go back, you know? It
was just like a really great movie for
me in the fact that it really
familiarized me with the fabric of the
period and the sort of texture of the
production design and the the lighting
and everything really worked together to
create that world.
A look at Oprah beloved. My influence
with actors in films is always a
collaborative process. I always show
them a bible that I've done of the story
how I see it just kind of a flow of the
film and it's always a funny process cuz
some actors are very engaged by it and
some of them you're just like what am I
going to wear? Oprah in this case of
Beloved was very respectful of Tony
Morrison's vision of the story but also
very respectful of having these costumes
that people actually made by hand. And I
think it was really interesting for
someone, you know, as massive as Oprah
with style and everything to just really
kind of hone it down and appreciate the
simplicity of these costumes and the
story that we were telling with these
characters.
A Christina so beautiful. Sleepy Hollow.
It's a fantastical story. It's a tale.
It's a fable. Chebo Emanuel Lubiski's
lighting was a huge part of that show.
The kind of idea that Christina Richi
was this glowing thing and that it was
like a world surrounded by darkness. And
I think that that's what Tim was
depicting in the telling of Sleepy
Hollow, the stuff that wasn't there. It
was my first film in the UK and I really
was cutting these clothes in a way that
they weren't very happy with me about in
the sense that I really wanted to take
them to a different level. I expanded
the skirts. I did all kinds of things to
the shapes and in the beginning the
people in the workroom were just like
well it's not Janet Arnold which is a
familiar face to them in in pattern
making but once we got into it and they
saw what I was doing with the fabrics
and the lighting and stuff they were
really excited about it and it was
really a great turnaround for me as a
designer working with fellow artisans.
These kind of movies especially these
sort of period films everything then was
sewn by hand. So the hand on everything
and the finishing is really important to
me. In that area, I had an amazing
textile artist that did the horseman's
cape and all the aging on the horsemen
and the screening on that, which was the
first time I'd worked with people of
that level in that area.
Catherine the Great, Chicago. When I
started Chicago, my first meeting with
Rob Marshall, I just finished Planet of
the Apes with Tim, which was such an
action movie, like all these layers on
layers that these guys had to do all
this work. And I was showing Rob the the
book, and I said, "This doesn't scare me
at all doing dance. I can see what it
takes to make these costumes work." My
fashion inspiration from Chicago really
came from the period and from a lot of
Versailles photographs, different
photography like Manray, sort of the
grittier side of life. It was kind of
the first time photographs weren't so
formal. It was sort of more jouro kind
of photography and it was really
interesting for me to look at that
because I knew the standard pretty
photography but it was great to go a
little bit deeper. The biggest challenge
on Chicago was the budget which was very
small. The dance numbers in Chicago, we
shot usually in about a 16-hour day. The
dancers and the actors had to perform
that long in one costume. I did not have
multiples. You just stood on the side
poised with a needle and thread waiting
for something to blow up on you. And
that's kind of how we got through the
job.
Jim Carrey, Lemony Snickickets. In
Lemony Snickicket, I really made kind of
quiet plea to myself that I was going to
create the textiles themselves. So, I
took textiles and took them apart,
applied them to other things. Gymsuit is
like strips of wool cut with metal base
behind it, which is why the stripes have
that strange kind of iridescence to them
that isn't just a hard stripe. I just
was really into the baby's dress as one
of my favorite costumes I've ever made
because it was really dark taffida with
a layer of baby pink on top and it just
made it the sickest most amazing color
and every element of it had a a feeling
of something being made by hand.
Memoirs of a geisha. That's a good
memory. In Memoirs of Agasha, it was a
really terrifying project as a designer
because you're honoring a 500year-old
culture. It was really important to me
to know what was real in what the gay
show wore. So, I had a lot of research
that I went by. Then I got the cast and
the cast were quite tall and willowy,
beautiful women. The actual real geisha
clothes were made for people much much
more compact and smaller. And I was
totally like going, "What am I going to
do?" But I went to a show in Tokyo, an
art exhibit of an illustrator from the
30s in Japan. He set me free because
he'd done all these illustrations that
were kind of the idea of what I wanted
to do with the costumes. And at that
point, I took the proportions and played
with them and made them work better on
our cast.
Sweeney Todd. Sweeny's neck tie was
actually one piece of fabric I had very
little of. It was an old handwoven piece
of fabric. It was blood everywhere in
that movie. And you're just like,
everyone's freaking out about the scar,
this tie, the tie. And I was like, I
don't care. I want this tie. And then
Steve Gal, who was my textile artist, we
printed fake ones so they looked good
for, you know, the blood work. I really
wanted it to be a black and white and
gray character. So, I liked using all
the warm and cool tones of all those
colors together to evoke, you know, the
moodiness of Sweeney
nine. Beautiful Nicole. The early 60s
high Italian fashion is one of my
favorite periods. It's just so
classically elegant and a throwaway at
the same time. It isn't as stuffy as the
Americans were. It's a little more real.
like it's really glamorous but you
believe people actually wore it and
lived in it and that's that was their
lifestyle. And then you have Sophia
Luren, Marian Kotiard, Penelopey Nicole
like you know on and on. I mean just
amazing cast of of actors for this
movie. It was all made costumes. We did
have jewelry from Shopart in this photo.
Nicole's bracelet was Chopard bracelet.
Uh Queenie we called her. This
collaboration with Tim was really
special to both of us because we both
loved the Tanel drawings of the early
Alice. And then we knew that the
audience was slightly more familiar with
the Disney version of Alice than Louis
Carol's novels. To juggle like taking
something that's a beloved sort of image
of a character like Alice and and
putting her into a new vibe was
something that we're like we're just
going the blue dress. How do we lose it?
Tim really figured out. He goes, "How
come when she shrinks and grows her
clothes they just shrink and grow with
her? Let's have her just like shrink and
then she's in like this kind of
underwear thing and then she grows and
she's in something else." So, it really
set us free from that and it was a
really fun thing to collaborate with. We
were also dealing at a time before
technology was quite what it is today.
Helena's costume was an especially big
challenge where we had to have the
collar and cheat the neckline lower in
order to make the head fit on the body
in a way that worked low tac which was a
fun learning curve for me.
Merryill as a blue witch. My research
for Into the Woods was somewhat fairy
tales but also is like Merryill's
opening in the show. She comes out of a
tree and I really liked her being the
textures of bark. And I'd fooled around
on something else with these leather
cords put on chiffon. You could twist it
like bark. It was like fortun but a
little bit more dynamic in a sense of
what you could do with it. So I did that
with her initial costume which is really
a ratty, you know, she'd been living in
the woods forever like a mad woman's
costume. She comes in and we're
thinking, "Do you need a hump?" And like
we put the thing on and we have the big
sleeves and everything and she like
stoops over in it and we're like, you
know, she doesn't really need it. She
can do it with her acting cuz she's such
a great movement actress. This costume
here was her fancy high-end witch's
concept of a beautiful mother witch,
which we also had fun with. Made with
the same technique, but with ribbons in
with the cord, so it had a little bit
more silky quality to it.
Eddie, Fantastic Beasts and Where to
Find Them. When I first read a script, a
lot of times I see the character like I
see this little guy that's introverted
and shy in the world and think of how to
make clothes that make him like that. In
a same way, in a kind of whacked out
way, I thought of him as a bird, like a
robin. And I don't know if it's cuz I'd
seen a robin in my yard that day, but I
like the colors of robins a lot. And I
thought, "Oh, I'll make his waist coat
kind of like the color of a robin, but a
little bluer. not quite so sad.
I think when I do a show like Wednesday,
you never know what it's going to mean
to anybody. It's fun to see it go on the
street. It's fun to see how people
interpret it and people reinterpreting
each character and how much they embrace
Enid and how much they embrace
Wednesday. And it's fun to see on
Halloween that, you know, people are
coming to your door that are like
Wednesday Adams. So are their moms. And
so you're just like, "Oh, wow. This is
like something to people." I've had a
few great costumes in my past for
Halloween, like the Martian Girl, Edward
Scissor Hands, Wednesday, Hannibal
Lectctor,
Ariel, the Little Mermaid, a challenge
and fun. I designed all the tales for
all the sisters and stuff with digital
artists that use them in the movies with
depicting actual fish from the seven
seas to have that vibe. Even though it's
not really a big part of the story, it
was a really fun element of the design,
the embracing of the sea world and and
human world of all different cultures.
With Ariel's costume above land, she was
going into the palace and the palace was
dressing her. So, she couldn't really
look like the queen, but she couldn't
really look like the servant. She was
somewhere in the middle. So, the blouse
is like more like an aristocratic kind
of beautiful little silk blouse. And the
corset is handmade like somebody's made
it. And then the skirts, like tucks and
tucks of coral, reminiscent of the
ocean. And of course, she had to be the
color of the sea. I messed around with a
lot of blues and stuff with it, but I
ended up in this kind of pale turquoise
color. Creating a a character within the
IP of an existing character is always a
challenge. But I think if the actors can
do it, then you can just kind of follow
suit and make it all work.
Masters of the Air, a huge challenge. It
was hundreds of costumes manufactured.
So I sourced really good materials from
all over the world. I found real pieces
and redid patterns that were currently
being sold by leather manufacturers. So
I had to go into the manufacturing
world, but I controlled it by the
pattern making side of it. Also, a lot
of times in these shows, nothing's
really aged. Nothing looks like people
really wore it for a long time. And it
was really important to me to have it
really feel worn in and real on all
these guys.
The beautiful Monica in Beetlejuice.
Beetlejuice. The funny thing about Tim
was I've been working with him for 30
years and I always read about like Tim
Burton's doing this and then he calls me
goes, you know, I might be doing this
thing like it's a secret cuz he doesn't
like to talk about stuff until he's
doing it and I always act surprised.
Oh, really? It's an interesting
challenge to take something as
contemporary as Beetlejuice and do your
version of it because people really
remember it. You know, the main thing is
I got some of the real stuff. I had him
feeding with fitting with Michael and
he's like, I remember the the text was
my favorite thing. Where's the real one?
And I was like, I got it. And he's
going, oh wow. It's just like people
remember things in a way when they see
it. The memory is more beautiful than
what the actual reality of the object
is.
Leo in probably the most disgusting
costume he's had to wear. The process of
working with Paul Thomas Anderson is
like no other. We had all these sessions
at his house where we take pictures of
stuff. We talk about stuff with Leo's
character especially and with Willis and
we try on things and take pictures and
he'd, you know, do different things with
the army guys. And as stuff came along
and it worked, then it became the
costume for the movie. We did fittings,
proper fittings as well. But it was
mainly that fluid process that brought
together the look of the film for Leo
and for um Chase Infinity's character
and it was really a road movie. So stuff
was in all kinds of environments. We
didn't have tons of multiples. I I got
the fabric for Leo's robe and made the
robes and then we needed more and I
called them and they go, "Oh, we don't
have that anymore." So we were stuck
with like six robes for the whole movie,
which is not that many for what he had
to do in it. But, you know, it it just
worked in a way that, you know, you
don't need sometimes so much stuff.
Sometimes it's good to not have it.
Jennifer Lopez as the Spiderwoman. The
use of color in Kiss of the Spiderwoman
was really inspired by the films of the
40s, the musical films where color was
really choreographed, orchestrated, and
we really dove into it that way, which
was a lot of fun because you really
could control all the color in the room.
Was a great process. It was a fantastic
job. Bill Condan, the director, is a
master at musicals. He knows everything
there is to know about them on film. and
her chops as an actress and as a dancer
are beyond belief. I think my favorite
part of making musicals is actually
making costumes for actors but also the
dancers and what they have to do in the
costumes. It's really fun to do that. I
like music a lot. I do stuff for bands
sometimes every once in a while and it's
just really great part of of making
things to bring joy to people. Wow. That
was my life in looks. At least half my
life in looks
[Music]